docs: add job hierarchy docs (#281)
OpenLineage/docs: docs/integrations/airflow/job-hierarchy.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Job Hierarchy
---

:::caution
This page is about Airflow's external integration that works mainly for Airflow versions <2.7.
[If you're using Airflow 2.7+, look at native Airflow OpenLineage provider documentation.](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-openlineage/stable/index.html)
:::

## Job Hierarchy

> In Apache Airflow, there is a natural hierarchy of jobs. 
> 
> On the top of the model, we have DAGs that are large, independently schedulable units, that are composed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Airflow features an inherent job hierarchy: DAGs, large and independently schedulable units, comprise smaller, executable tasks.
```

of smaller, executable units - tasks. 

> OpenLineage's Job Hierarchy model follows that natural model. On DAG being scheduled, we emit START OpenLineage event.
> Then, for each task we emit START events on TaskInstance START and COMPLETE/FAILED events when TaskInstance finishes execution.
> The order of those tasks is determined by Airflow. After all the tasks run, we emit COMPLETE (or FAILED) event for the whole DAG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenLineage reflects this structure in its Job Hierarchy model.
Upon DAG scheduling, a START event is emitted.
Subsequently, each task triggers START events at TaskInstance start and COMPLETE/FAILED events upon completion, following Airflow's task order.
Finally, upon DAG termination, a completion event (COMPLETE or FAILED) is emitted.
```

> TaskInstance events's ParentRunFacet points to the DAG run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TaskInstance events' ParentRunFacet references the originating DAG run.
```
